Task 4. Prepare answers to the following questions

I. How can one restrict access to certain columns of a database table?

1. Set Column level permissions to grant or deny access to specific columns to users:

CREATE ROLE column_access_actor WITH PASSWORD 'QIWIWI122'
GRANT SELECT actor_id ON TABLE public.actor TO column_access_actor;

Testing results show that SELECT * FROM public.actor will lead to a restriction error; the target columns should be mentioned in the user query:
SELECT actor_id FROM public.actor

2. Use views with limited access to the required users

CREATE VIEW allowed_rentals as SELECT rental_id, rental_date FROM public.rental;
GRANT SELECT ON allowed_rentals to column_access_user;

3. Column-level encryption to encrypt just the column data, so the user can access the column but can not see the actual data. PostgreSQL has a pgcrypto module for this purpose.

Column-Level Security allows hiding sensitive data and displaying only necessary information for a specific position. For example, an analyst can view a customer's purchase history, but do not see credit card numbers or home addresses. Healthcare researchers see only the patient blood pressure column without personal names.

II. What is the difference between user identification and user authentication?

Identification is the ability to uniquely identify a user of a system or an application. Authentication is the ability to prove that a user or application is genuinely who that person or what that application claims to be.

The query SELECT * FROM pg_roles WHERE rolname = 'client_mary_smith'; will identify that such a user exist
The authentication happens when client_mary_smith logs into the database using her password

III. What are the recommended authentication protocols for PostgreSQL?

Password-based authentication (for example, SCRAM-SHA-256) - the current gold standard.
GSSAPI: provides automatic authentication (single sign-on) for systems that support it
SSPI is a Windows technology for secure authentication with single sign-on
Certificate authentication requires an SSL connection and authenticates users by checking the SSL certificate they send - for high security operations
Peer authentication, which relies on operating system facilities to identify the process at the other end of a local connection. This is not supported for remote connections.
Others: LDAP, RADIUS, ident, PAM, BSD, OAuth, trust

IV. What is proxy authentication in PostgreSQL and what is it for? Why does it make the previously discussed role-based access control easier to implement?

Proxy authentication allows one user to connect and then act on behalf of another user.

For example, we have a user from the questions above with limited access to the actors table (column_access_actor)

GRANT column_access_actor TO client_mary_smith 

SET ROLE client_mary_smith

SELECT actor_id FROM public.actor
output: the actors ids table

The client_mary_smith accesses the actor table without separately assigned privileges. It is especially suitable for multiple users and role privileges. 
